# miltary-spending-and-happiness
This was a group project between my 3 friends and I.  We recognized there has been increasing political polarization regarding government funding for the military.  An argument from the right is that we need to heavily invest in the military for national security purposes.  The left’s counter argument is that governments should be spending more of the military budget on programs that more directly affect their citizens – such as aiding the homeless or increasing medicare. These programs directly affect the well-being of citizens, but also a country’s national security also casts its own influence over a population’s sentiments. Thus, we hypothesized that military spending should have an effect on the population’s level of happiness. In our project, we first investigated whether the amount of money a government spends on their military is correlated to the overall happiness of its citizens, and if that correlation is positive or negative. 
Moreover, a population’s happiness relies on numerous factors, such as perceptions of government corruption, widespread generosity, family, life expectancy, and more. Military spending has often been linked to government corruption throughout history and can positively or negatively change the population’s trust in its government. Military spending also has an indirect impact on health programs, as explained above. Moreover, the sense of national security from military spending may prove correlated to the sentiments of freedom. Thus, military spending has possible correlations to these contributing facets of happiness: government trust, life expectancy, and freedom. Analyzing these correlations will reveal the impact military spending has on specific facets of a population’s happiness.

Research Question: Does military spending as a percentage of GDP have a positive, negative, or insignificant correlation with a country’s overall happiness? Does military spending correlate to more specific factors of happiness, such as freedom, health expectancy, and government trust? Are those factors of happiness strongly correlated with overall happiness or are they more inelastic?

This question is relevant because it examines the impact of a nation’s military budget on citizens, which is pertinent to our topic of interest. The conclusions found can provide an important insight on the debate between the left and right wings. By finding the relationship between military spending and sentiments of freedom, life expectancy, and government trust, we are able to further develop the accuracy of each side’s arguments, revealing the positive or negative impacts military spending has on these facets. This question provides an important insight on military spending’s effect on a nation’s people. An understanding of these effects can have a positive impact on broader society. We will also be able to analyze the results to see which factors of happiness do not fluctuate as much when overall happiness increases and which factors of happiness are more elastic and likely to be subject to influence.


We looked at the following three datasets from Kaggle:
1:  “Happiness and Corruption 2015-2020” 
Type: csv, Kaggle Ownership: Elias Turk, License: CC0: Public Domain
This dataset provides information about the population’s overall happiness by country by aggregating all valid data for countries with existent data from the year 2015 to 2020. The dataset provides specific columns to outline the factors that contributed to the overall happiness score. This dataset will be immensely useful in comparing the overall happiness and its contributing factors between countries. By analyzing this data, we can possibly find correlations in the happiness scores with increases in military spending.  
2:“Military Spending of Countries (1960-2019)” 
Type: csv, Kaggle Ownership: Nitin Singh, License: Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License (CC BY 4.0) 
Consolidated from The World Bank Database, this dataset provides the military expenditure (in USD) of over 200 countries from 1960-2019. We will be able to analyze this dataset alongside the “Happiness and Corruption 2015-2020” dataset, analyzing the countries with large or small military expenditures and merging the datasets to find any correlation to overall happiness.
3: “World GDP (GDP, GDP per capita, and annual growths”
Type: csv, Kaggle Ownership: Ozgur Cem Tas, License: CC0 – Public Domain
	This dataset contains the overall GDP per country from 1960-2020. We will utilize this dataset along with the “Military Spending of Countries (1960-2019)” dataset to calculate the percentage of military expenditure relative to GDP. This calculation will allow us to analyze military expenditure relative to overall GDP to account for differences in the size and economy of countries. This dataset will be easier to work with when compared to the one marked in our proposal, as the years are the columns rather than the rows, like our military spending dataset.
